you
hey guys coach Matt over here at primals
so here's what we're doing today got a
great question on when you should be
training in the weight room and when you
should be working in the circle during
the season and during the offseason so
real quick I wanted to just answer sort
of ideally how I would like it ideally
how I would plan things out if I was
running a team and had a really nice
easy meet schedule so I got a look at
college now most colleges you're going
to have your track meets on Saturdays
and what that does that gives you Monday
through Friday to practice Saturday is
your meet and Sunday hopefully or
typically is going to be a travel day or
your day off so if I had one track meet
on Saturdays which is how colleges do it
high schools during the championship
season and also during the summertime if
you do any AAU or USATF meets it's
usually going to be on a Saturday so if
that's the case Monday for me is going
to be a day to do throwing technique in
the circle and your special strength
you're throwing specific movements with
things like you know medicine balls or
javelin throwing balls or you know
overweight underweight implements
anything like that that's what we're
gonna do on Monday Tuesday we're going
to throw for half the practice and the
other half of practice is going to be in
the weight room okay depending on where
you are in the season what your training
program comes from that's when you're
doing your weight training Wednesday is
going to be very similar to Monday where
the majority of practice is going to be
throwing technique and then your special
strength you're throwing specific
strength movements are going to be sort
of the last quarter of practice so if
it's a two-hour practice you're looking
at you know an hour and a half of
practice on throwing technique and the
last half an hour working with med balls
and whatever else you're doing Thursday
similar to Tuesday so Thursday you're
going to do the first half of practice
is going to be throwing and throwing
technique the second half of practice is
going to be weight room and then Friday
you do before the meet you do maybe you
know an hour practice where you're
warming up
you're taking some easy throws you're
taking a couple of hard throws and
you're just getting prepared for the
meet now does that always happen
perfectly absolutely not you're rarely
going to have unless you're in college
you're really going to have where you
can do Monday throwing Tuesday throwing
in waiting room
Wednesday throwing Thursday throwing in
wait room Friday as a premium easy day
doesn't happen a lot of times you have
got more than one meet throughout the
week especially in high school at the
beginning of the season so what do you
do well it's tough as it is to say what
you do is that these beginner meets at
the season you treat them just like
another day of practice so if you have a
meet on Tuesday and you're supposed to
lift on Wednesday you all lift on Monday
you lift on Monday because some
ambulance is going by outside we're
right next to a firehouse so apologize
for that if your meat is on Wednesday
and you're supposed to lift on Tuesday
you're lifting on Tuesday if it's most
of the time if you have a meet during
the week it's gonna be a little dual
meet or something along those lines
where you don't necessarily need to put
a lot of effort into it it's usually
doesn't even qualify you for the bigger
meats at the end of the year at the
beginning of the year just treat it like
another day of practice I try not to
lift after a meet I try not to have any
practice after a meet usually a meet day
that's sort of your easy day when you're
only taking about with warm-ups and
everything else even if you do two
events and if you make finals if they
even have finals you're really only
taking about maybe thirty five throws
between two events including warm-ups
and everything else so it's an easy day
it's more of a rest day at the beginning
of the year so that afterwards you maybe
hit it hard in the weight room but you
just got to try to kind of finagle it
and try to you know get it so that
you're in the weight room twice a week
and you're doing a lot of throws
training and a lot of throwing technique
and throwing specific exercises with med
balls and other things throughout the
week but that's how I would set it up in
a perfect world you are just gonna have
to play with it you have to physically
take a calendar okay and this is what I
do I take a calendar
I take the months from the season and I
tape the calendar up on the wall and
what I'll do is I'll plot out all of my
meats so I have a full view of my season
and then I plot in where I want to wait
train around those meats and everything
else is a throwing day so that's what
you should do too if you're concerned
about something like that whether you
should live before a meet you just have
to plot it out on a calendar as long as
you're getting in the weight room twice
a week during the season you should be
all set now during the summertime if you
don't have any meats going on I want you
in the weight room at least three times
a week now I want you throw in at least
three to four times a week so that means
on some days yes you will have to throw
the same days that you lift the lifting
might be a little bit harder the
throwing might be a little bit longer
but you know what it's summertime you
don't have any meats
you've got more opportunity to rest so
go at it go hard all summer throw a lot
during the summer make sure you're
spending time in the circle with the
disc the shot the hammer on the runway
with the javelin whatever your specific
event hope this helped you out hope this
makes makes you a little bit more
knowledgeable as far as when you should
be setting up your weight training and
you're throwing during the season and
during the offseason any other questions
make sure you give me a shout or go to
primal ATC comm sign up for our
newsletter and then either we can start
sending emails back and forth I hope to
hear from you soon